readme.md, before:

# check-links

> Robustly checks an array of URLs for liveness.

[![NPM](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/check-links.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/check-links) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/transitive-bullshit/check-links.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/transitive-bullshit/check-links) [![JavaScript Style Guide](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-standard-brightgreen.svg)](https://standardjs.com)

## Install

This module requires `node >= 4`.

```bash
npm install --save check-links
```

## Usage

```js
const checkLinks = require('check-links')

const results = await checkLinks([
  'https://foo.com',
  'https://404.com',
])

results['https://foo.com'] // { status: 'alive', statusCode: 200 }
results['https://404.com'] // { status: 'dead', statusCode: 404 }
```

## API

<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### [checkLinks](https://github.com/transitive-bullshit/check-links/blob/dc9d7ab5e9074c3da19177640c7aea2482393d90/index.js#L41-L74)

Robustly checks an array of URLs for liveness.

Returns a `Map<String, Object>` that maps each input URL to an Object with at least
one property, `status` which may be any of `alive | dead | error | invalid`. Status
will be `alive` if the URL was reachable, `dead` if it was definitely not reachable,
`error` in the event of repeated transport errors, and `invalid` if the URL was parsed
as invalid.

Additionally, the result [LinkCheckResult](https://github.com/tcort/link-check/blob/master/lib/LinkCheckResult.js)
may contain a `statusCode` if the HTTP request to that URL resolved properly.

Type: `function (urls, opts): Promise`

-   `urls` **[array](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array)&lt;[string](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String)>** Array of urls to test
-   `opts` **[object](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)?** Configuration options
    -   `opts.baseUrl` **[string](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String)?** Base URL for resolving relative urls
    -   `opts.concurrency` **[number](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number)** Maximum number of urls to resolve concurrently (optional, default `8`)
    -   `opts.retries` **[number](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number)** Number of times to retry resolving a dead URL (optional, default `2`)
    -   `opts.protocols` **[Set](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Set)** Set of string protocols to accept (defaults to `http:` and `https:`) (optional, default `Set(['http:','https:'])`)

## Related

-   [link-check](https://github.com/tcort/link-check) - Used under the hood, checks whether a given hyperlink is alive or dead.
-   [remark-lint-no-dead-urls](https://github.com/davidtheclark/remark-lint-no-dead-urls) - Remark lint plugin that inspired this module.

## License

MIT © [Travis Fischer](https://github.com/transitive-bullshit)

Commit message:

replace check-link with got and optimize HEAD vs GET flow

readme.md, after:

# check-links

> Robustly checks an array of URLs for liveness.

[![NPM](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/check-links.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/check-links) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/transitive-bullshit/check-links.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/transitive-bullshit/check-links) [![JavaScript Style Guide](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-standard-brightgreen.svg)](https://standardjs.com)

## Install

This module requires `node >= 4`.

```bash
npm install --save check-links
```

## Usage

```js
const checkLinks = require('check-links')

const results = await checkLinks([
  'https://foo.com',
  'https://404.com',
])

results['https://foo.com'] // { status: 'alive', statusCode: 200 }
results['https://404.com'] // { status: 'dead', statusCode: 404 }
```

## API

<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### [checkLinks](https://github.com/transitive-bullshit/check-links/blob/784e9cda3da0d9cff6c98330fbceb24dfa351aa7/index.js#L36-L53)

Robustly checks an array of URLs for liveness.

For each URL, it first attempts an HTTP HEAD request, and if that fails it will attempt
an HTTP GET request, retrying several times by default with exponential falloff.

Returns a `Map<String, LivenessResult>` that maps each input URL to an object
containing `status` and possibly `statusCode`.

Supports HTTP and HTTPS protocols.

`LivenessResult.status` will be one of the following:

-   `alive` if the URL is reachable (2XX status code)
-   `dead` if the URL is not reachable
-   `invalid` if the URL was parsed as invalid or used an unsupported protocol

`LivenessResult.statusCode` will contain an integer HTTP status code if that URL resolved
properly.

Type: `function (urls, opts)`

-   `urls` **[array](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array)&lt;[string](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String)>** Array of urls to test
-   `opts` **[object](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)?** Optional configuration options (any extra options are passed to [got](https://github.com/sindresorhus/got#options))
    -   `opts.concurrency` **[number](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number)** Maximum number of urls to resolve concurrently (optional, default `8`)

## Related

-   [remark-lint-no-dead-urls](https://github.com/davidtheclark/remark-lint-no-dead-urls) - Remark lint plugin that inspired this module.

## License

MIT © [Travis Fischer](https://github.com/transitive-bullshit)
